Define "execution result" and "request error result" (#1159)
graphql/graphql-spec: spec/Section 7 -- Response.md

## Response Format

:: A GraphQL request returns a _response_. A _response_ is either an _execution

> result_, a _request error result_, or a _response stream_.

Author: Updated. I also updated the sections below to follow the same order

### Execution Result

:: A GraphQL request returns an _execution result_ when the GraphQL operation is
a query or mutation and the request included execution. Additionally, an
execution result is the event emitted by a _response stream_.

An _execution result_ must be map.

The _execution result_ must contain an entry with key {"data"}. The value of
this entry is described in the "Data" section.

If execution raised any errors, the _execution result_ must contain an entry
with key {"errors"}. The value of this entry must be a non-empty list of
_execution error_ raised during execution. Each error must be a map as described
in the "Errors" section below. If the request completed without raising any

> errors, this entry must not be present.

Author: I moved and adjusted some of the text from the Errors section. Placing it under `Execution Result` and `Request Error Result` so we can describe the specific behavior (must be included in  `Request Error Result`, may be included in `Execution Result`) without the Errors section having conditions for each type.

Note: When {"errors"} is present in a _execution result_, it may be helpful for
it to appear first when serialized to make it more apparent that errors are
present.

The _execution result_ may also contain an entry with key `extensions`. The
value of this entry is described in the "Extensions" section.

### Request Error Result

:: A GraphQL request returns a _request error result_ when the request fails
before execution. A request may fail before execution due to a syntax error,
missing information, or validation error, resulting in one or more _request
error_ being raised. This request will result in no response data.

A _request error result_ must be a map.

The _request error result_ map must contain an entry with key {"errors"}. The
value of this entry must be a non-empty list of _request error_ raised during
the _request_. It must contain at least one indicating why no data was able to
be returned. Each error must be a map as described in the "Errors" section
below.

Note: It may be helpful for the {"errors"} key to appear first when serialized

> to make it more apparent that errors are present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to make it more apparent that errors are present.

The _request error result_ map must not contain an entry with key {"data"}.
```

present.

The _execution result_ may also contain an entry with key `extensions`. The
value of this entry is described in the "Extensions" section.

### Response Stream

:: A GraphQL request returns a _response stream_ when the GraphQL operation is a
subscription and the request included execution. A response stream must be a
stream of _execution result_.

### Request Error Result

:: A GraphQL request returns a _request error result_ when one or more _request
error_ are raised, causing the request to fail before execution. This request
will result in no response data.

Note: A _request error_ may be raised before execution due to missing
information, syntax errors, validation failure, coercion failure, or any other
reason the implementation may determine should prevent the request from
proceeding.

A _request error result_ must be a map.

The _request error result_ map must contain an entry with key {"errors"}. The
value of this entry must be a non-empty list of _request error_ raised during
the _request_. It must contain at least one indicating why no data was able to
be returned. Each error must be a map as described in the "Errors" section

> below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the _request_. It must contain at least one _request error_ indicating why no
data was able to be returned. Each error must be a map as described in the
"Errors" section below.
```

### Data

The {"data"} entry in the _execution result_ will be the result of the execution
of the requested operation. If the operation was a query, this output will be an
object of the query root operation type; if the operation was a mutation, this
output will be an object of the mutation root operation type.

The response data is the result of accumulating the resolved result of all
response positions during execution.

> If an error was raised before execution begins, the _response_ must be a
> _request error result_. The {"data"} entry must not be present in this map.

Reviewer: Feels to me like the normative rule on {"data"} not being present in a request error result should live in the request error result section.

```suggestion
If an error was raised before execution begins, the _response_ must be a
_request error result_ which will result in no response data.
```

If an error was raised during the execution that prevented a valid response, the
{"data"} entry in the response should be `null`.

### Errors

> The {"errors"} entry in the _execution result_ or _request error result_ is a

Author: We could also define a type _Response Result_ that includes both _Execution Result_ and _Request Error Result_ as subtypes, but adding another layer of hierarchy might be less clear?

}
```

### Extensions

The {"extensions"} entry in an _execution result_ or _request error result_, if
set, must have a map as its value. This entry is reserved for implementers to
extend the protocol however they see fit, and hence there are no additional
restrictions on its contents.

> To ensure future changes to the protocol do not break existing services and
> clients, the _execution result_ and _request error result_ maps must not contain
> any entries other than those described above.

Reviewer: Probably worth noting that clients should _ignore_ additional properties rather than _abort_ if additional properties are seen. This is essentially us guaranteeing that we will only make additive changes to the spec.

Another minor issue: it feels weird putting this paragraph in the "extensions" section. Let's just insert a header:

```suggestion
### Additional Entries

To ensure future changes to the protocol do not break existing services and
clients, the _execution result_ and _request error result_ maps must not contain
any entries other than those described above. Clients must ignore any entries
other than those described above.
```
